Add docs for FileSystemHandle.remove() (#23379)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/filesystemhandle/remove/index.md

---

{{securecontext_header}}{{APIRef("File System Access API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`remove()`** method of the {{domxref("FileSystemHandle")}} interface requests removal of the entry represented by the handle from the underlying file system.

This is a convenient addition to allow you to remove a file or directory directly from its handle. Previously you would have to obtain the handle of the parent directory, then call {{domxref("FileSystemDirectoryHandle.removeEntry()")}} on that to remove it.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
remove(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object that specifies options for the removal. Possible properties are as follows:
    - `recursive` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A boolean value that defaults to `false`. When set to `true` and the entry is a directory, its contents will be removed recursively.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a value of `undefined`.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidModificationError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if `recursive` is set to `false` and the entry to be removed is a directory with children.
- `NoModificationAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown if the browser was not able to get an exclusive lock on the entry, or if the entry is the root directory of the [Origin Private File System](/en-US/docs/Web/API/File_System_Access_API#origin_private_file_system).

Reviewer: > or if the entry is the root directory of the [Origin Private File System](/en-US/docs/Web/API/File_System_Access_API#origin_private_file_system).

This was actually recently changed to not throw an error (see [spec discussion](https://github.com/whatwg/fs/pull/9#discussion_r1042546998)).

In fact, it might be worth calling out explicitly that removing on the root of the OPFS (i.e. `navigator.storage.getDirectory()`) is a convenient way to clear the OPFS :)

Author: Ah, OK. I've removed this bit from the "Exceptions" section and added a new line in the introduction to make people aware of this. Does it read OK?

Reviewer: Looks great - thanks!

- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if {{domxref('PermissionStatus')}} is not `granted`.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown if an entry name is not found or matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown if the entry is not found.
```
I think?

Author: Better! Updated.

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}

>   - : Thrown if the name is not a valid string or contains characters not allowed on the file system.

Reviewer: Is this relevant? Unlike with `removeEntry()` we're not passing in any parameters here

Author: Duh, good point. You can tell I copied this from `removeEntry()`, as it was _mostly_ the same ;-)

Author: Removed.

## Examples

> Our [FileSystemFileHandle.remove() demo](https://filesystemfilehandle-remove.glitch.me/) (see the [source code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/filesystemfilehandle-remove)) is a very simple file creator app. You can enter text into the {{htmlelement("textarea")}} and press the "Save file" {{htmlelement("button")}}, and the app will open a file picker allowing you to save that text onto your local file system in a text file of your choice. It doesn't allow you to view the content of created files, and it doesn't sync the app with the underlying file system on page reloads.

Reviewer: > and it doesn't sync the app with the underlying file system on page reloads

Hmm I wonder if there's a better way to word this. It seems a bit misleading since the file will still exist on the underlying file system if the user doesn't `remove()` it before closing the tab

Author: I have updated the text to make this clearer.

---
title: FileSystemHandle.remove()
slug: Web/API/FileSystemHandle/remove
page-type: web-api-instance-method
tags:
  - Directory
  - File
  - File System Access API
  - FileSystemHandle
  - Method
  - Experimental
browser-compat: api.FileSystemHandle.remove
---

{{securecontext_header}}{{APIRef("File System Access API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`remove()`** method of the {{domxref("FileSystemHandle")}} interface requests removal of the entry represented by the handle from the underlying file system.

> This is a convenient addition to allow you to remove a file or directory directly from its handle. Previously you would have to obtain the handle of the parent directory, then call {{domxref("FileSystemDirectoryHandle.removeEntry()")}} on that to remove it.

Reviewer 2: Let's just treat this as a usual API member. It will soon not be a new addition anymore.

```suggestion
The `remove()` method allows you to remove a file or directory directly from its handle. Without this method, you would have to obtain the handle of the parent directory, then call {{domxref("FileSystemDirectoryHandle.removeEntry()")}} on that to remove it.
```

> You can also call `remove()` on the root directory of the [Origin Private File System](/en-US/docs/Web/API/File_System_Access_API#origin_private_file_system) as a convenient way to clear its contents, after which a new empty OPFS is created.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I'm grumpy but I think we don't need the advertisement :)

```suggestion
You can also call `remove()` on the root directory of the [Origin Private File System](/en-US/docs/Web/API/File_System_Access_API#origin_private_file_system) to clear its contents, after which a new empty OPFS is created.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
remove(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object that specifies options for the removal. Possible properties are as follows:
    - `recursive` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A boolean value that defaults to `false`. When set to `true` and the entry is a directory, its contents will be removed recursively.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a value of `undefined`.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidModificationError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if `recursive` is set to `false` and the entry to be removed is a directory with children.
- `NoModificationAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the browser was not able to get an exclusive lock on the entry.
- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if {{domxref('PermissionStatus')}} is not `granted`.
- `NotFoundError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the entry is not found.

## Examples

> Our [FileSystemHandle.remove() demo](https://filesystemhandle-remove.glitch.me/) (see the [source code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/filesystemhandle-remove)) is a very simple file creator app. You can enter text into the {{htmlelement("textarea")}} and press the "Save file" {{htmlelement("button")}}, and the app will open a file picker allowing you to save that text onto your local file system in a text file of your choice. You can also choose to delete files you create.

Reviewer 2: Nothing is ever simple. Remove for inclusivity. 

```suggestion
Our [FileSystemHandle.remove() demo](https://filesystemhandle-remove.glitch.me/) (see the [source code](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/filesystemhandle-remove)) is a file creator app. You can enter text into the {{htmlelement("textarea")}} and press the "Save file" {{htmlelement("button")}}, and the app will open a file picker allowing you to save that text onto your local file system in a text file of your choice. You can also choose to delete files you create.
```
